# SAS-Projects
This project is based on 2017 SAS Analytics Shootout Competition. Datasets are provided in the Shootout package.
## Datasets：
[2017 SAS Shootout File](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1xIovBMOkZNidH64OF3gHrnIReukR3qyo)
## Background:
In the fall of 2016, a number of wildfires occurred in the southeastern United States. Spanning over 5 states and several weeks, more than 33 wildfires broke out and caused extensive damage. As a result, over 80,000 acres were burned, dozens of people were injured, and at least 14 fatalities were reported. Conditions and the physical landscape of these areas were very favorable for wildfires to occur. Many of the counties affected were experiencing significant and extreme droughts. Causes for the fires were varied, but at least some were suspected to have been started by arson.  
Wildfires are a frequent problem for many parts of the world. They may even be increasing in some areas of the United States. They start unexpectedly and may cause extensive damage to homes, businesses, wildlife habitat and air/water quality, require a great deal of money and resources to manage, and affect the quality of life of those living in the areas they occur. Understanding the conditions, causes, and impacts of wildfire activity may help communities and individuals better prepare for the likelihood of their occurrence in the future, saving both money and, more importantly, lives.
## Primary Tasks:
1. Wildfire Conditions  
As previously mentioned, conditions for wildfires change based on a number of factors. At any particular time and location, given a cause, the chances of a wildfire occurring will change. Using any of data provided, develop a model for predicting propensity of wildfire at any given time based on the current conditions at that same time. What type of model techniques did you find effective? What are the conditions most favorable for a wildfire?
2. Wildfire Causes  
A fire cannot start without cause (spontaneous combustion, spark, etc.). Sometimes it can start from a natural event. Other times is can be linked directly to human activity. The cause of a wildfire is often determined after the event has occurred. Using the data provided and the “Wildfire Narratives”, extract additional information that may help classify wildfires by cause. For example, how often are you able to determine the initial cause of a wildfire? Produce a model that will predict the probability of potential causes of a wildfire by time and geography.
3. Wildfire Impacts  
The “impact” of a wildfire can be defined in many ways, including area burned, people displaced, cost to contain, cost in damage, and lives lost. Impacts vary greatly based on the cause, the physical geography, and the weather conditions before and after ignition. In the data provided, the impact of the wildfire events is not always captured adequately in the variables. Using the “Wildfire Narratives”, extract additional information to help quantify how impactful the wildfires are in terms of acres burned. Build a model that predicts acres burned from the provided variables.
